---
title: Registration for 2024 Secondary 1 at PRCSS
permalink: /2024-sec-1-registration/registration/
variant: tiptap
description: ""
---
<h1><strong><u>Registration for 2024 Secondary 1 at PRCSS</u></strong></h1><p></p><p>Congratulations on your posting to Pasir Ris Crest Secondary School (PRCS) to commence your journey in secondary school education. Our school’s vision is “Our Caring Home, Our CRESTian Leaders” and we are happy to support you on a new phase of your development as we officially welcome you into the Crestian family!</p><p>You do not need to report physically to PRCS following the release of your posting results as the Secondary 1 Registration will be conducted virtually.</p><p>The following six steps will provide you with more information as we bring you through the Secondary 1 Registration process.</p><p>(A)&nbsp;&nbsp; Zoom Briefing details for Secondary 1 students and parents</p><p>(B)&nbsp;&nbsp; Online Registration</p><p>(C)&nbsp;&nbsp; Administrative Matters</p><p>(D)&nbsp;&nbsp; First Day of School</p><p>(E)&nbsp;&nbsp; Start It Right Programme</p><p>(F)&nbsp;&nbsp; Appeal Matters</p><p></p><h3><strong><u>(A) Zoom Briefing details for Secondary 1 students and parents</u></strong></h3><ol data-tight="true" class="tight"><li><p>Parents are encouraged to join us via Zoom for a welcome address by Principal, Year Head, and Subject-Based Banding briefing by the teacher in-charge.<br></p><table><tbody><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><strong>Date:</strong></p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><strong>Thursday, 21 December 2023</strong></p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><strong>Time:</strong></p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><strong>9.00 am to 11.00 am</strong></p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><strong>Login username*:</strong></p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><strong>Child’s class/Child’s name</strong></p></td></tr></tbody></table><p>(*For security reasons, please use this format for your login username.)</p><p></p></li><li><p></p><h4><strong>Information about the Zoom Room ID and password will be given to all parents via Parents’ Gateway (PG).</strong></h4></li><li><p>For parents who do not use PG, you may reach out to us to obtain the Zoom information via email <a rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow" target="_blank">prcss@moe.edu.sg</a> or call the school at 65811655.</p></li><li><p>The Principal’s slides will also be uploaded on the school website after the session.</p></li></ol><h3><strong><u>(B) Online Registration</u></strong></h3><p>Parents are to ensure that you have your Parents Gateway (PG) mobile app ready to complete the Sec 1 online registration. Pasir Ris Crest Secondary School will be automatically reflected and assigned to your PG once your child/ward has received his/her school posting.</p><ol data-tight="true" class="tight"><li><p><strong>E-Registration</strong><br>a) Please complete the <strong><a href="https://form.gov.sg/657954b324518d0012835009" rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow" target="_blank">Online Registration Form</a></strong> after you have received the PG message from us.<br>b)&nbsp;The registration takes about 10 minutes. Please complete all fields.<br>c) <strong>It is compulsory for parents/guardians to complete the registration</strong>. Please complete the registration latest by&nbsp;<strong>Wednesday,</strong> <strong>20 December 2023, 11:59 pm.</strong></p></li><li><p>Log in to PG mobile app (if you have not downloaded the app, please refer to the link, <a rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow" target="_blank">https://www.prcss.moe.edu.sg/support/parentsgateway/</a>).</p></li><li><p>You will receive messages via PG by 20 December 2023 (by 6.00 pm).</p><p><strong>PG Message 1</strong></p><ul data-tight="true" class="tight"><li><p>Welcome Letter from the Principal;</p></li><li><p>Child’s class posting;</p></li><li><p>PE T-shirt Colour (to purchase <strong>brown</strong> colour); and</p></li><li><p>Zoom Briefing details for Secondary 1 students and parents.</p></li></ul><p><strong>PG Message 2 </strong>(If your child is eligible for Higher Mother Tongue Language, 3rd Language or is eligible to offer subject at a More Demanding Level.)</p><ul data-tight="true" class="tight"><li><p>Higher Mother Tongue Language eligibility, or</p></li><li><p>3rd Language eligibility or</p></li><li><p>Offer for Subject(s) at a More Demanding level</p></li></ul></li><li><p>For parents who do not have access to PG app, please contact the school.</p></li></ol><h3><strong><u>(C) Administrative Matters</u></strong></h3><p>After you have received the messages via PG/email, you may commence on the following (whichever applicable):</p><ol data-tight="true" class="tight"><li><p><strong>Offer for Subject(s) at More Demanding Level</strong></p><p>More information on offer for Subject(s) at More Demanding Level will be provided during the Zoom briefing on <strong>21 December 2023</strong>.</p><p></p></li><li><p><strong>Purchase of new Uniform and Textbooks</strong></p><ol data-tight="true" class="tight"><li><p>Click on the <a href="https://www.prcss.moe.edu.sg/files/Booklist/2024/secondary%201.pdf" rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow" target="_blank">link</a> for 2024 booklists for Secondary One cohort. <br>(If your child is taking up the Offer for Subject(s) at More Demanding Level, refer to the booklist for the indicative level of the subject i.e. G3, G2, for the appropriate textbooks/workbooks to purchase.)</p></li><li><p>To manage the crowd on-site and reduce wait-times, the school has made arrangements for parents/ students to <strong>opt either for self-collection</strong> (during pre-assigned slots based on the booklist); or <strong>paid delivery</strong>, when ordering textbooks and uniforms during the end of year sales period.&nbsp;</p></li><li><p><strong>No walk-in for all purchases.</strong></p></li><li><p>Please contact the school bookshop and uniform vendor using the information in the table to indicate your preferred option and make the necessary arrangements.</p><table><tbody><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Bookshop</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Online platform:&nbsp;<a rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow" target="_blank">https://www.pacificbookstores.com</a></p><p>Contact number: 6929 8012 / 6559 2269</p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>School uniform</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Online platform: <a rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow" target="_blank">https://www.asencio.com.sg</a>&nbsp;</p><p>Email: <a rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow" target="_blank">prcs@asencio.com.sg</a></p><p>Contact number: 6764 3102</p></td></tr></tbody></table></li><li><p>For student who are under the MOE Financial Assistance Scheme, please access the booking link/email below to make your purchases.</p><table><tbody><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Bookshop</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>E-appointment link:&nbsp;register.ezy-queue.com</p><p>Tel: 6559 2269</p><p>Email:&nbsp;<a href="mailto:sales@pacificbookstores.com" rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow" target="_blank">sales@pacificbookstores.com</a>&nbsp;</p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>School uniform</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Email:&nbsp;<a href="mailto:prcs@asencio.com.sg" rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow" target="_blank">prcs@asencio.com.sg</a></p><p>Contact number: 6764 3102</p><p>&nbsp;</p></td></tr></tbody></table></li></ol><p></p></li><li><p><strong>Secondary 1 Parent Teacher Meeting and CCA Briefing</strong></p><ol data-tight="true" class="tight"><li><p>We would like to invite all parents and students to attend the Secondary One Parent Teacher Meeting and CCA Briefing on <strong>Saturday, 13 January 2024, from 8.00 am to 11.00 am</strong> in the school.</p></li><li><p>More information on the briefing will be provided nearer the date.</p></li></ol><p></p></li><li><p><strong>Parent Support Group</strong></p><ol data-tight="true" class="tight"><li><p>The PRCS Parent Support Group (PSG) are strong advocates of fostering a conducive home-school partnership and seeks to support the school’s mission towards becoming 'A Choice School that nurtures the Hearts and Minds of Crestian Leaders to be the pride of family, community and nation'. The PSG is a network of parents that also supports the holistic development of Crestians through participation in and organisation of school activities (e.g. Education and Career Sharing, Overcomers’ Run) and PSG-related programmes for parents and students.</p></li><li><p>Find out more about PRCS PSG by clicking on this <a href="https://sites.google.com/moe.edu.sg/prcss-psg/psg-home" rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow" target="_blank">link</a>.</p></li></ol><p></p></li><li><p><strong>MOE Financial Assistance Scheme (FAS) Application (If applicable)</strong></p><ol data-tight="true" class="tight"><li><p>The objective of the MOE FAS is to help financially needy Singaporean students in Government and Government-aided schools to meet basic schooling expenses.</p></li><li><p>Eligibility Criteria</p><p>Student must be a Singapore citizen enrolled in a Government or Government-aided school and meets either one of the following criteria:</p><ul data-tight="true" class="tight"><li><p>Gross household income (GHI) as at the time of application does not exceed $3000 per month; or</p></li><li><p>Household per capita income (PCI) as at the time of application does not exceed $750 per month.</p><p>PCI = Monthly GHI / No. of members in the same household</p></li></ul></li><li><p>You may download the MOE FAS application form using the <a href="https://www.prcss.moe.edu.sg/support/financial-assistance/" rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow" target="_blank">link</a>.</p></li><li><p>Please email the completed forms to <a href="mailto:prcss@moe.edu.sg" rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow" target="_blank">prcss@moe.edu.sg</a>.</p></li><li><p>If you do not meet the eligibility criteria of the MOE FAS, but require financial assistance, do visit <a href="https://www.prcss.moe.edu.sg/support/financial-assistance/" rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow" target="_blank">https://www.prcss.moe.edu.sg/support/financial-assistance/</a> or approach the school staff at the school’s General Office for assistance.</p></li></ol><p></p></li><li><p><strong>Interbank GIRO</strong></p><ol data-tight="true" class="tight"><li><p>We encourage all students to sign up for GIRO application for payment of school fees.</p></li><li><p>You may submit the GIRO application through the following means, if you have not signed up for GIRO payment with your child’s primary school.</p><table><tbody><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="2"><p>GIRO applications for school fees collection</p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Banks</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Methods</p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>DBS and POSB</p><p>(For Singaporean account holders only)</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><a href="https://www.moe.gov.sg/financial-matters/fees" rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow" target="_blank">https://www.moe.gov.sg/financial-matters/fees</a></p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>DBS, POSB and OCBC</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Set up the GIRO arrangement with MOE through the respective banks’ internet- banking portals.</p></td></tr></tbody></table></li></ol><p></p></li><li><p><strong>Reporting Attire and Dismissal Timings for School Days</strong></p><ol data-tight="true" class="tight"><li><p>Refer to the table below for the dismissal time, CCA timing and school attire.</p></li><li><p></p><table><tbody><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Day</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Sec 1 Dismissal Time</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>CCA time</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>School attire</p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Monday</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>1.50 p.m.</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>-</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Full School Uniform only</p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Tuesday</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>3.30 p.m.</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>3.35pm to 5.35 pm</p></td><td rowspan="4" colspan="1"><p>&nbsp;</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>Full School Uniform</p><p>OR</p><p>PE t-shirt with school bermudas or school skirt</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>&nbsp;</p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Wednesday</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>1.50 p.m.</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>-</p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Thursday</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>2.40 p.m.</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>2.45 pm to 5.45 pm</p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Friday</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>12.30 p.m.</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>-</p></td></tr></tbody></table></li><li><p>To support our students’ transition to a Secondary School, CCA will only commence on <strong>Thursday, 22 February 2024</strong> for Secondary One students.</p></li><li><p>See below for CCA trials for Sec One students.</p></li><li><p>For safety reasons, students are not allowed to leave school before CCA.</p></li></ol><p></p></li><li><p><strong>CCA Trials</strong></p><ol data-tight="true" class="tight"><li><p>Our school conduct CCA trials for Sec One students where students get to experience different CCAs before selecting their choices for CCA. Our school has a range of 18 CCAs for the students to choose from.</p></li><li><p>To allow Secondary One students to better understand the requirements of the various CCAs, the school will conduct <strong>CCA trials</strong> during CCA sessions on <strong>23, 25, 30 January and 1, 6 February 2024 until 5.30 pm</strong>.&nbsp; Attendance is compulsory.</p></li><li><p>More details on the CCA trials will be shared during the Secondary 1 Parent-Teacher Meeting and CCA Open House on <strong>Saturday, 13 January 2024</strong>.</p></li></ol><p></p></li><li><p><strong>Issuance of New Secondary Level School Smart Cards (SSC)</strong></p><ol data-tight="true" class="tight"><li><p>All students entering Secondary One in January 2024 will be issued with a new Secondary level School Smart Card (SSC). MOE will inform the school of the delivery dates in due course.</p></li><li><p>While Secondary One students are waiting for their Secondary level SSCs to be ready, they can continue to use their Primary level SSCs for concessionary travel till further updates from Transitlink office. Students can still purchase the Bus Concession Pass (BCP) using their Primary level SSCs but they will need to purchase the BCP for Secondary School students.</p></li></ol><p></p></li><li><p><strong>Passport-size Photographs</strong></p><ol data-tight="true" class="tight"><li><p>Our school will arrange to take passport-sized photographs of students on <strong>8 January 2024 (Monday)</strong>.</p></li><li><p>The photographs will be used for Pupil Confidential File and school matters.</p></li><li><p>Your child/ward should be attired in full school uniform and will have to pay the vendor directly. The details on cost will be updated at a later date.</p></li></ol><p></p></li><li><p><strong>Road Safety</strong></p><p>We seek your cooperation in the area of road safety to ensure the safety of your child/ward.</p><ol data-tight="true" class="tight"><li><p>Parents can drop off child/ward at the bus stop just outside the school.</p></li><li><p>Parents who drive your child/ward to school in the morning are to turn left when exiting the school from 0700 to 0730 to avoid holding up the traffic.</p></li><li><p>Kindly follow the traffic markings within the school and only drop off your child/ward at the designated drop off point, i.e. the School Tower.</p></li><li><p>Remind your child/ward not to jaywalk but use the pedestrian crossings at all times.</p></li><li><p>Advise your child/ward not to use earphones/headphones or use his/her mobile phone when walking to school, as it would reduce his/her level of alertness of the traffic condition.&nbsp;</p></li></ol></li></ol><h3><strong><u>(D) The First Day of School</u></strong></h3><ol data-tight="true" class="tight"><li><p>Refer to the table for the reporting time and attire on the first day.</p><table><tbody><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Reporting time</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>7.25 am (In their allocated classroom at level four)</p><p>The classroom location will be placed on the noticeboard at the Tower Block.</p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Attire:</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>PRCS PE T-shirt and PE shorts or Primary School PE attire</p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Shoes:</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Predominantly white shoes with lace</p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Socks:</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>White with no logo</p></td></tr></tbody></table></li><li><p>Students can refer to the noticeboard at the Tower Block which will contain more information on their classroom location.</p></li><li><p>Items to bring:</p><ol data-tight="true" class="tight"><li><p>An English story book for Reading Period</p></li><li><p>Stationery</p></li><li><p>Primary School Report Book</p></li><li><p>Payment for Crestian’s handbook ($5.20)</p></li></ol></li><li><p>Bring a <strong>photocopy </strong>of the following documents for the Pupil Confidential File:</p><ol data-tight="true" class="tight"><li><p>Passport/Student Pass (for foreign student)</p></li><li><p>PSLE results slip</p></li><li><p>Mother Tongue Language exemption letter (if applicable)</p></li><li><p>Any documents deemed useful by parents/guardians (e.g. Medical Report)</p></li></ol></li></ol><h3><strong><u>(E) Start-It-Right Programme</u></strong></h3><ol data-tight="true" class="tight"><li><p>The programme will be conducted from Tuesday, 2 January to Friday, 5 January 2024 in week one to help your child/ward transit smoothly into secondary school life.</p></li><li><p>The programme will include activities to bond with their classmates and introduction to the teachers and school environment.</p></li><li><p>The attire is PRCS PE T-shirt and PE shorts or Primary School PE attire.</p></li><li><p>Bring an English story book for reading, stationery, and water bottle.</p></li><li><p>Refer to the table below for dismissal time in week one only.</p><table><tbody><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Date</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Dismissal time</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Programme</p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>2 - 3 January</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>1.50 pm</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Orientation activities conducted by our Crestian Senior Leaders in school.</p><p>Canteen is open for recess and lunch.</p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>4 January</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>7.00 pm</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Day camp where there will be team bonding activities and campfire conducted in school.</p><p>Canteen is open for recess and lunch.</p><p>Halal packed meal will be catered during dinner for all students.</p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>5 January</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>12.30 pm</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Applied Learning Programme</p><p>Drumming workshop at external venues.</p><p>A bun will be provided for all students. Students are encouraged to bring healthy snacks to consume during their break time.</p></td></tr></tbody></table></li></ol><h3><strong><u>(F) Appeal Matters</u></strong></h3><ol data-tight="true" class="tight"><li><p>Appeals for transfer out due to serious medical conditions</p><ol data-tight="true" class="tight"><li><p>An appeal to transfer out to another school due to compelling medical reasons must be submitted via email to Secondary 1 Year Head, Mrs Mimi Ang, lam_kwai_lin_mimi@schools.gov.sg by 21 December 2023, 12 pm.</p></li><li><p>Things to note when appealing for a transfer:</p></li></ol></li></ol><p>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; (i)&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; All appeals must be accompanied by relevant supporting documents, such as medical reports, letters from doctors.</p><p>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; (ii)&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Our staff will help to file your appeal.</p><p>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; (iii)&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; The appeal results will be released in early January.</p><p>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; (iv)&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; If you intend to appeal for transfer out, your child must still report to PRCS on the first day of school, and continue to attend school until the transfer is approved.</p><p>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; (v)&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Transfers are subjected to vacancies at the requested transfer school, and MOE’s approval.</p><p>2.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; General transfer appeals</p><p>(a)&nbsp;&nbsp; Submissions for transfers or appeals to PRCS should be submitted online via this form by Tuesday, 26 December 2023, 5.00pm. Application for transfer will be based on following factors:</p><p>(i) Student must meet school’s Cut-Off Points (COP) for respective posting group</p><p>(ii) Available school vacancies</p><p>(iii) Merits of other applicants on the school’s waitlist</p><p>(b)&nbsp;&nbsp; Do note that students successfully allocated to their schools via the Direct Schools Admission (DSA) Exercise will not be allowed to transfer to another school. For successful DSA postings, students are expected to honour their commitment to the accepting school for the duration of their secondary school journey. Parents are encouraged to consult the receiving DSA school for further advice if there are valid reasons for a transfer.</p><p>(c)&nbsp;&nbsp; The school will contact you if your child/ward is shortlisted.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p></p>