---
title: (B) Online Registration
permalink: /2024-sec-1-registration/registration-2024-sec-1-prcs/b/
variant: tiptap
description: ""
third_nav_title: Registration 2024 Sec 1 PRCS
---
<h2><strong>(B) Online Registration</strong></h2><p>Parents are to ensure that you have your Parents Gateway (PG) mobile app ready to complete the Sec 1 online registration. Pasir Ris Crest Secondary School will be automatically reflected and assigned to your PG once your child/ward has received his/her school posting.</p><ol data-tight="true" class="tight"><li><p><strong>E-Registration</strong>.<br>a) Please complete the <strong><a href="https://form.gov.sg/657954b324518d0012835009" rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow" target="_blank">Online Registration Form</a></strong> after you have received the PG message from us.<br>b)&nbsp;The registration takes about 10 minutes. Please complete all fields.<br>c) <strong>It is compulsory for parents/guardians to complete the registration</strong>. <br><br>Please complete the registration latest by&nbsp;<strong>Wednesday,</strong> <strong>20 December 2023, 11:59 pm.</strong>&nbsp;</p><p></p></li><li><p>Log in to PG mobile app (if you have not downloaded the app, please refer to the link, <a rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow" target="_blank">https://www.prcss.moe.edu.sg/support/parentsgateway/</a> ).</p></li><li><p>You will receive messages via PG by 20 December 2023 (by 6.00 pm).</p></li></ol><p><strong>PG Message 1</strong></p><ul data-tight="true" class="tight"><li><p>Welcome Letter from the Principal;</p></li><li><p>Child’s class posting;</p></li><li><p>PE T-shirt Colour (to purchase <strong>brown</strong> colour); and</p></li><li><p>Zoom Briefing details for Secondary 1 students and parents.</p></li></ul><p></p><p><strong>PG Message 2</strong> (if your child is eligible for Higher Mother Tongue Language, 3rd Language or is eligible to offer subject at a More Demanding Level.)</p><ul data-tight="true" class="tight"><li><p>Higher Mother Tongue Language eligibility, or</p></li><li><p>3rd Language eligibility or</p></li><li><p>Offer for Subject(s) at a More Demanding level<br></p></li></ul><ol start="4" data-tight="true" class="tight"><li><p>For parents who do not have access to PG app, please contact the school.</p></li></ol><p></p>